Ok off we go.
So this data says it's got a few columns he's got row number customer id surname.
So what we're looking at is a data set of a bank.
Of course it's all fictional.
It's not a real bank but it's very realistic.
And here we've got a snapshot of if you scroll down to the bottom is going to be 10000 customers.
So 10000 start a said and what the bank did is they measured some things about these customers right.
Why did why did they undergo this whole thing and what's the challenge.
Well the bank has been seeing unusual churn rates.
So churn is when people leave the company and they've seen customers leaving at unusually high rates
and they want to understand what the problem is and they want to assess and address that problem.
And that's why they've hired you to look into this data set for them and give them some insights.
And how did this dataset come to be.
Well six months ago the bank said all right there's a big problem.
We've got to take a sample of our customers by the way this is a sample that 10000 is a tiny number
for this bank.
This bank has millions of customers it operates.
This fictional bank operates in Europe in three countries France France Spain and Germany and they have
lots and lots of customers so what they did is they took this sample of 10000 customers and they measured
six months ago everything they knew about them they are customer id their surname credit score their
geography their gender their age their 10 years so how long they've been with the bank the balance of
the customers at that point in time the number of products they had at that point in time.
So a number approaches things like how many products do they have to have a savings account have a credit
card do they have a loan.
Did the customer have a credit card or not.
So there's no yes no flag is the customer an active member and other Snowflower active member can be
measured differently by different organizations.
It could be whether or not the customer logged into their online banking in the past month whether they
did a transaction in the past two months or some other measurement like that and estimated salary so
the bank doesn't know the salary of the customers but based on the other things they know they could
estimate a salary for that customer and they also gave you this information.
So six months ago they measured all of these things and said All right.
So for these 10000 are randomly selected customers are we going to just watch them so we just going
to wait six months and six months on the track we're going to check who those customers left and who
those customers state.
And that's what this column exited or presents here.
It tells you whether or not the person left the bank within those six months.
So this person over here sometime within the six months he left the bank.
And as of a couple of days ago he's no longer with the bank.
This personal We're here on the other hand is still in the bank.
So there's a Zuri here.
This person left the bank this person stayed and so on.
So if you see one that means the person is no longer the bank is that person still the bank and your
goal is to create a job demographic segmentation model to tell the bank which of their customers are
at highest risk of leaving.
What I wanted to mention today is that for a lot of customer centric organization this is going to be
valuable so I've done this personally I've done this so many times it is such a value add to any customer
centric organization.
So whenever whenever an organization deals with customers this is a lot of value.
And then the other thing is that this skill that you're going to learn is very transferable.
It doesn't have to be for a bank.
It doesn't have to be for churn rates just demographics segmentation models can be applied to millions
of scenarios so here for instance even in a bank the same scenario could work should the person get
a loan or not.
Should the person be approved for credit or not.
And once again you'd have a binary outcome.
So based on prior experience you would know whether or not a person is reliable and you'd build a model
and say which people are more likely to be reliable and which people are more likely to default.
And that could govern the bank's decision on whether or not to give loans.
This could be in terms of fraudulent transactions not even in a bank in a different financial institutions
you could find out which transactions are more likely to be fraudulent which are less likely.
There's lots of scenarios where you could apply a demographic segmentation and it doesn't even have
to be demographic.
So whenever you have a scenario when you have a binary outcome and you have lots of independent variables
you can build a proper robust and that will tell you which factors influence the outcome.
So you can apply this knowledge is going to learn in any kind of scenario where you have a binary outcome
and lots of independent variables